Defense in depth provides multiple layers on our computer networks, systems and data.
It's like a castle that has multiple checkpoints to get to those crown jewels.
Our modern computing system have multiple levels of security.
By the end of this lesson,
you'll be able to explain how security defenses
are layered throughout the different system architectures.
It starts with a network layer,
usually a router that connects a network to other networks like the Internet,
or a switch that connects computers to a network.
Today, mobile devices such as tablets and
smartphones are used in work environments and provide an additional layer.
The operating system is the software that supports a computer's basic functions.
This provides an additional layer of protection,
for example, Windows and MacOS.
Applications are on top of the operating system,
and in our example, it's databases.
On top of that is the data that you access by the application,
this could be sensitive information like
tax data or your personally identifiable information.
Surrounding all of these areas are humans,
which interact with each layer.
Now let's talk about layering protection.
Each layer has some protection to keep the whole system safe.
For example, an employee that has access to a database of client information,
they would first need to attach to the local network either directly at the worksite,
or remotely over the Internet through a VPN.
The employee would then need to log into
the operating system using their valid credentials,
a user ID and a password.
They would also need special permissions to access the database on the inner network.
The server housing the database will also have layers of
defense with its own firewall and access control lists,
and should be hardened against attacks.
The sensitive data should also be encrypted as an additional layer of protection,
encryption is just the scrambling of the data.
Whether they realize it or not,
the employee touches each of these layers,
although they may only think of the application and the data they may see.
The more layers, the more secure the endpoints.